[grunting]
Yeah. Yeah.
[man] Right up there.
Right up in here.
There we go.
[jackhammer pounding]
[man] Aim for the rock!
[beeps]
-Mankins!
-[Mankins] Yeah?
You want to tell me why
your methane sensors are off?
I don’t know.
Maybe the batteries are dead.
Why don’t you get us a canary.
This is no joke.
These are to alert you
to concentrations of methane.
They must stay on.
[man]
Where’d that come from?
[rumbling]
Sounds like the open pit.
We hit a methane pocket.
That’s impossible.
Everybody. out! Everybody. out!
-[man 1] Come on!
-[man 2] Go!
Go. go.
No!
[explosion]
[siren wails]
-[sobbing]
-[panicked chatter]
Help me!
[grunting]
[whimpering]
-[man] Go. go. go!
-[pained mumbling]
[screaming]
[country music playing]
♪ All I do is drive
Drive. drive ♪
♪ Try to stay alive ♪
♪ My mind on my load ♪
♪ I got nothing in common
With any man ♪
♪ Who’s home every day
At five ♪
♪ All I do is drive
Drive. drive. drive. drive ♪
[men laughing distantly]
[man]
What you got. Gurty?
Come on. you can say it.
You can say it.
[men laughing]
We will sort right here.
and they will save their hands
right there.
The coffee saved with water
for me.
For him. For them.
[man]
Is it coffee. Gurty?
[laughter]
This how you guys
still get your kicks. huh?
Walk away. Gurty.
They’re idiots.
[man]
Hey...
how’s it feel to be best friends
with a retard?
He’s my brother.
Johansson.
And I told you
never to call him that.
Retard.
[grunts]
[keyboard keys clacking]
[man]
McCann. get in here!
[groans]
I know what you get.
but I talk with a lot
of hands for hands
sometimes.
[Mike]
Gurty.
We’re fired.
But tires to a point
rotated go.
Let someone else rotate them.
We’re fired.
Pack your shit up.
Skeeter too. Come on.
[squeaking]
[Gurty]
I don’t want.
Me never been in.
and then today we don’t.
Gurty. I don’t care.
You’re going in.
They’re going
to look after you.
We’ve been together
a long time.
but he can’t hold a job.
and I can’t carry him anymore.
I don’t have a lot of tire left
on my own treads.
-[chuckles]
-Will this help
make him self-sufficient.
doctor?
I can’t promise anything
with language cognition scores
like these.
but we’ll see
what we can do.
Hi. John. I’m Dr. Talbot.
Pleased to meet you.
Thank you. I appreciate it and
hope the world lasts for you.
He’s saying hello.
How long to go with them?
With them for the time over.
For them. For me.
He’s asking what all this
entails. doctor.
Well. just a few tests.
If he qualifies
for rehabilitation.
we arrange housing.
Should take no more
than an hour.
Skeeter.
You can’t bring Skeeter
in here.
Let them poke and prod you.
It’s no big deal.
I’ll see you in an hour.
Hey. don’t be a big baby.
-Thanks. Doctor.
-You’re welcome.
John. the examination room
is just down the hall.
[woman. over PA]
Psych evaluator Hackman.
dial 617.
Psych evaluator Hackman
No readings indicated
a methane gas pocket?
So you’re saying.
as general manager
of this facility.
that this was
out of the blue?
Completely out of the blue. sir.
We think the gas built up behind
the stoping shields
where our PDM sensors
couldn’t pick it up.
I’m briefing the prime minister
in 20 minutes.
Listen carefully.
No one goes in any
of the tunnels
until that gas
is drilled and capped.
Understood. sir.
Understood.
Let me ask you.
how do we drill and cap
a methane pocket
without a wellhead?
I’ll get back to you.
[Sickle sighs]
Get me the air force base
in Winnipeg.
officer in charge
of civilian emergencies.
Airlift a 30-ton gas wellhead?
Impossible.
And there’s no runway
up at Katka to land a C-130 on.
and our largest choppers
are Chinooks.
which can’t carry
a 30-ton wellhead.
Payloads of that nature
have to go by truck.
[phone line rings]
Jill. that young field officer
in Winnipeg is supposed
to know everything
about ice road transports
up to the northern mines?
-[Jill] Max Tully?
-Yes. him.
[man] The prime minister
will see you now.
Just a sec.
Max Tully?
[man]
Mr. Goldenrod!
What?
I’m Max Tully
with Mining Safety.
Could I have a word with you?
It’s about Katka Mine.
What about Katka?
This morning.
tunnel six collapsed.
I need an 18-foot gas wellhead.
300 feet of pipe delivered
up there in under 30 hours.
Eighteen-foot gas wellhead
and 300 feet of pipe?
Goddamn. that’s a hell
of a lot of weight. son.
-Can you make it happen?
-What do I look like. God?
We’re three weeks into April.
All my drivers are on their way
to Hawaii.
or wherever the hell it is that
they go during the off-season.
Say. for conversation’s sake.
you have replacements.
We’ll say for conversation’s
sake that these rigs have wings.
What have you been smoking?
March 10th. the season ended.
That’s five weeks ago.
Didn’t old-timers back in the
’60s drive the lake into April?
Yeah. and most of them died
doing it.
So it’s really
that dangerous.
Yeah. It’s that dangerous.
Okay. okay.
It’s a stupid idea.
Sorry for asking.
Hey. hey. kid.
Come here.
I know all the miners
up there in Katka.
I know their families.
So it’s personal with me.
If I can get drivers
and a mechanic...
let’s say 3:00 this afternoon.
and if you can get
the provincial government
to open up the ice road.
two very big ifs...
we’ll do it.
Thank you.
Shit.
Hi. Um...
-Excuse me.
-Yes?
I brought my brother in
this morning.
Vocational rehab?
McCann. 813.
He’s still being evaluated. sir.
The doctor said an hour.
It’s been two and a half.
We’re a little
short-staffed today.
so please take a seat.
Hey! Sir?
Sir!
Get Security on 2-East. please.
Hey. bro.
What’s happening?
What is all this?
[pills rattle]
Oh. geez.
What is going on here?
Xanax and Lexapro. right?
Probably some Oxy
for good measure?
You know.
to take the edge off?
-They’re for PTSD.
-I know what they’re for.
Did you ask for these. Gurty?
He has insomnia. hypertension.
makes inappropriate outbursts.
Oh. kiss my Irish ass.
Post-traumatic stress disorder
is real.
I can Section 502 him.
Do it.
The press’ll love
another story
about how the VA
overprescribes opioids
to America’s heroes.
You are making
a grave mistake.
You try and stop us
from leaving here. so are you.
[pills clatter]
Wait. wait. wait. wait.
Here. put this on.
It’s cold.
Wait. here. Here.
Come on. your pants.
[truck engine turns off]
[hydraulics hiss]
Ken-- Kenworth.
More Ken.
Take us great that owned we.
-We.
-Sure. sure.
It would be great if we owned
our own rig.
Did you win the lottery?
Did you happen to win
the Pick-6 and not tell me?
This thing costs 200 grand.
Gurty.
200.
[cell phone vibrates]
[sighs]
Ever been to Winnipeg.
Gurty?
It’s just 70 miles.
"Win a pig."
We might. partner.
With any luck.
today we might just win a pig.
[radio announcer]
News all day. every day.
Our top story:
twin explosions rocked
northern Manitoba’s Katka mine
this morning.
killing eight miners
and leaving 26 more
unaccounted for.
The cause of the explosion
has not been determined.
Hi. I’m calling from
Trapper Transpo in Winnipeg.
We’re in an emergency
and need drivers.
Tully. give me 50 bucks.
You got 50 bucks?
-Yeah. I do.
-One of my drivers
-just became available. Thanks.
-Fantastic. What’s it for?
-Bail.
-What?
Told you this wasn’t
going to be easy.
Sunglasses and keys.
You protest
and throw rocks again.
we’ll arrest you again.
We’re going to keep doing it
until you get off our land.
The city owns
that parking lot.
I was referring
to North America.
See you soon.
How’s the fight
for justice going?
Keep building casinos.
you’ll beat the white man
without a shot fired.
You heard about the cave-in
up at Katka?
Yeah. it was on
the TV in there.
I still haven’t heard from Cody.
though. I’m worried sick.
He’s on the list
of those missing.
I’m putting together
a little rescue mission.
Ice road?
Yup.
I’m in.
[starts engine]
[men coughing]
Let’s get a head count.
Cody.
One.
-[man] Two.
-Three.
-Four.
-Five.
-Six.
-Seven.
-Eight.
-Nine.
-Ten
-Eleven.
-Twelve.
-Thirteen.
[Dave]
I got a wife and kids. Jim.
How would I even
explain this to them?
No one’s going to force you
to go. Dave.
I understand.
it’s not for everyone. Thanks.
-What do you got?
-Half are retired.
half have never seen
an ice road.
Next. there are two guys
up from North Dakota.
Brothers.
Thank you.
Which one of you guys
is Mike McCann?
I am.
You’re the driver?
He’s the mechanic?
Yup. One of the best.
Says you had experience
on the ice road
in the Northwest Territory.
That’s pretty serious country.
What’d you drive?
Anything on wheels.
Says you’ve had 11 gigs
in the last eight years.
which ain’t exactly
inspiring my confidence.
There some reason
that you can’t hold down a job?
My... My brother’s a veteran.
Got injured in Iraq.
He’s got this thing
called aphasia. which is--
I know what it is.
Long story short.
for the past eight years
I’ve been his caretaker.
for lack of a better word.
and...
-And we--
-I get it. I get it.
I ain’t got time.
What’s his name?
Call him Gurty.
Gurty. Hey.
Gurty. Jim Goldenrod.
Grab your tool set.
follow me.
Right here.
I want you to pull
the rocker arm shaft.
I’m going to time you.
Say when.
-Go.
-[watch beeps]
Sweet Jesus.
Okay. Tully.
send everybody else home
and call Katka.
-I got my crew.
-[Tully] Where’s Tantoo?
She’s re-parking
somebody else’s rig.
[tires screech]
She seems
a little young.
-I’ll have contracts drawn up.
-Thank you.
[all grunting and panting]
[Lampard]
Enough.
Anyone not out by now
isn’t coming out.
[distant clanging]
You guys hearing that?
-[clanging continuous]
-[man] What is that?
[clanging on pipes]
That sounds like tap code.
-You men. give us a hand.
-[grunting and straining]
Somebody had to have been
in the Army. Navy. Cub Scouts.
-[men groaning and panting]
-[rocks sifting]
[tapping rhythmically]
[taps clanging]
[Lampard]
What are they saying. Cody?
"How many are alive?"
Look. if you do hear something.
-you call me. all right?
-Yes. sir.
[clanging]
-[clanging continuous]
-Uh...
26... alive.
Fred. listen to me.
Listen to me.
You tell them we’re going
to cap that methane
with a wellhead. all right?
And then we’re going to blast.
You tell them those wellheads
are coming ASAP. all right?
-Okay.
[clanging on pipe]
Wellheads arrive ASAP.
What do they mean. ASAP?
Six hours?
Twelve hours?
What if it’s 30?
Then we’re dead.
[man coughing]
The 26 includes Lampard.
Yup.
Mankins?
He’s alive.
So the question is time.
I mean. no one’s ever lasted
over 30 hours under permafrost.
Well. the government’s
got that ice road open.
Safety supervisor guy. he’s even
managed to secure transpo.
Jim Goldenrod.
If Jim Goldenrod believes
25-ton wellheads
can roll across
a frozen lake in April.
I suppose we should
believe it too.
All right.
These wellheads are beasts.
Eighteen feet long.
25 ton heavy.
We got three rigs.
all identically equipped
so that we can achieve
tactical redundancy.
We’re taking every chance
to save those miners’ lives.
-Tactical re-what-ancy?
-[Mike] Redundancy.
Each rig doesn’t need the others
to complete the mission.
Gold star to the man
from North Dakota.
One. two. three.
The gold one is mine.
You two can paper/rock/scissors
for the red one.
She’s the one
with the comfy seats.
It’s all yours.
[Tully]
The contracts.
-One for you.
-Thanks.
One for you. And you.
Two hundred thousand
split four ways.
Any questions?
What happens to anyone that
doesn’t make it? To their money?
Paragraph four. Their share goes
to those that do.
-That’s pretty cold.
-Sounds fair to me.
Who’s that guy?
Mr. Varnay.
Tom Varnay. Katka International
Insurance Group.
Tully. these are my trucks.
I say who goes.
They’re your trucks.
but it’s Katka’s insurance.
So if one goes in the lake.
it’s on Katka.
-He’s not taking a cut?
-No. no. no. Absolutely not.
I’m just along for the ride and
to protect Katka’s investment.
All right. you’ll ride with
Tantoo in the black Kenworth.
Put your gear in there.
You two will find safety bags
in the locker area.
It’s time to load up.
We’ll fuel the rigs
and we’ll push in 15.
Thank you. Thanks.
-Thank you.
-Hello.
[sighs]
[Mike]
Fifty grand apiece times two.
That’s more than enough
for a down payment
on a rig like this.
Sorry I ripped up your brochure.
by the way.
I’m going to put Skeeter
up front with us. okay?
Where are you?
Tantoo. is it?
Tully says you’re Cree.
What’s your name mean?
Name mean...
"like to drive alone."
Mount up!
Use the head
if you have to now.
We’re on a bull run.
See you on the flip side.
Tully.
[engines idling]
We’ll run with 200-foot
separations.
leapfrogging every few hours.
-Everyone good with that?
-Yup.
Affirmativo.
First leg:
Lake Winnipeg ice road.
About 300 miles.
20 hours.
Second leg: up and over
Manitoba Pass.
Third leg: Manitonka ice road
to Old Manitonka Bridge.
Twenty-three hours total.
What’s wrong
with New Manitonka?
[Goldenrod] The new bridge
would be preferred.
but getting up to New Manitonka
is another 90 kilometers.
That puts us outside the miners’
oxygen window.
[Tantoo] Old Manitonka
was built in the ’60s.
so that’s rated 75.000 pounds?
Yup. We’re going to be
shaving it close.
Here we go. people.
[Lampard]
Oh. shit.
You said 120 meters that way.
80 that way?
Give or take.
Pretty decent
atmospheric volume.
Yeah. except we got 26 sets
of lungs down here.
[men coughing]
-[Mike] Hey. Jim.
-Yeah.
I thought I heard every
trucker’s expression.
so what the heck’s a bull run?
Bull run?
Well. back in Minnesota.
all the livestock haulers
never used to stop.
because bulls. you see.
got to be standing
when they’re being transported.
As soon as one gets tired
and lies down.
then the others
will step on him and kill him.
All livestock haulers
know this.
so they never stop
for anything.
[Mike] Ah. I see.
I’m learning
something tonight.
[song. on radio]
♪ My eyes are open wide ♪
♪ I just passed a Jimmy
And a White ♪
♪ I’ve been passing everything
In sight ♪
♪ Six days on the road ♪
♪ And I’m gonna
Make it home tonight ♪
♪ Well. it seems
Like a month ♪
♪ Since I kissed my baby
Goodbye ♪
♪ I could have
A lot of women ♪
♪ But I’m not like
Some of the guys ♪
♪ Yeah. a big eight-wheeler
Running down the track ♪
♪ Means your true love
He ain’t coming back ♪
♪ ’Cause I’m moving on ♪
Hey. Jim. how are you feeling
about the ice?
[Goldenrod]
Cold. hard and stiff.
I wish we weren’t running
in bright sunshine tomorrow.
[song. on radio] ♪ Said hello
To the southland ♪
♪ We’re coming to you ♪
♪ And we’re moving on ♪
♪ Oh. hear my song ♪
[wind gusting]
You want a sandwich?
You haven’t eaten
since we left.
You’ll know
when I’m hungry.
It’s very unattractive.
You get cranky?
Worse. I act white.
[chuckles]
Tully said you and Goldenrod
had a falling out.
That wasn’t a big deal.
Sounded like a big deal.
He fired me. I got upset
and took a swing at him.
It’s old news.
How’s that Kenworth. boys?
She’s a fine ride. Jim.
Thinking we might get one
just like it.
Well. what you gonna call her?
-[chuckles]
-Take your time. boys.
Naming a big rig’s
a sacred thing.
What’ll we name our truck.
Gurty?
Truck-truck-truck.
[laughs]
You hear that?
"Truck-truck-truck."
I like it.
It’s got a ring to it.
It is beautiful
out here.
Is this really
that dangerous?
It doesn’t seem
like a big deal.
What exactly do you do?
I’m an actuary.
A risk assessment professional.
if we’re being formal.
Well. Mr. Varnay.
hauling heavy cargo
on ice in April is a big deal.
See Custer’s head there?
Tips us off
to pressure waves.
You go too fast.
you create a pressure wave.
In you go.
You go too slow.
the ice can’t handle
the pounds per square inch
on your tire.
In you go.
[rumbling]
[sputtering]
What the hell was that? Over.
Sounds like my head gasket.
Come on. kid. Come on!
[steam hissing]
Sweet Jesus.
that ain’t good.
Shit.
Whoa. what the hell
are you doing?
Going back.
I thought we weren’t stopping
for anything.
You know. all that
"bull run" stuff?
I said. we’re going back.
Goddamn it!
-[gear shift cranks]
-[sighs]
[ice crackles]
Gurty’s going to run diagnostics
while we hook up.
We’ll pull together.
Use the nylon snatch pulleys
on the rear
so the rigs can swing.
Is this...
this going to work?
How far are we gonna...
gonna tow him?
All the way to the mine?
Do us all a favor.
Mr. Varnay.
and get back in your truck.
[sighs]
[exhales]
Shit. Come on.
[ice creaks]
[grunts]
Oh...
Gurty!
Clear out.
What happened?
Rear trailer tires went in.
-[ice creaking]
-[water rushing]
Oh. shit.
What the hell’s going on?
Come on. Jim.
[screams]
[engine revs]
[engine revving]
[whimpering]
Jim! Jim! Jim!
Tow line’s got me!
Cut me loose. My leg’s broken.
Cut me loose
or you’re all going in!
The tow line’s got me
and my leg’s broken. Do it.
-Do it!
-I can’t.
Do it! Do it!
[gasps and cries]
Jesus.
[breathing heavily]
[ice creaking and groaning]
Holy shit!
[rumbling]
It’s spreading out.
Meaning what?
Meaning it’s going
to keep cracking for two.
maybe three thousand meters.
That’s over a mile.
We’ll outrun it.
Let’s move!
We got to unhook first.
There’s no time.
We’re going to have to run
tied together. Go!
[rumbling and creaking]
[panting]
Get your harness on.
Mike. come in. We got
to hike up the speed. Over.
[Mike] Roger.
[ice crackling]
Mike. come in.
We got to run faster.
Roger. Gurty. running board.
-Get out. On the running board.
-Why?
So if we go through.
we can jump clear.
[ice cracking]
Got a pressure wave
ahead of me.
Well. I got one hell
of an ice crack behind me here.
so how do you want to die?
Slush bed at 200 yards.
Get in and buckle up.
Hang on. pal.
This is going to get ugly.
This is not good.
This is not good!
[tires squeal]
I don’t like this!
-Shit!
-[metal creaking]
[groaning]
[Mike]
I’ve got your seat belt.
You okay. pal?
[ice rumbling distantly]
[ice creaking]
We’re finished.
[mumbling prayer]
[ice crackling]
It stopped.
Yeah.
It stopped!
[Mike]
We capsized for a reason.
Now our weight’s displaced
evenly instead of on the tires.
So based on seven liters
per minute. per man...
Seven liters?
That’s all a grown man
breathes?
When at rest. the figure doubles
with physical exertion.
Hey. Cody.
can I ask you something?
-Sure.
-When the mine blew up.
I said we hit
a methane pocket
and you said
"That’s impossible."
Why?
[dirt sifting]
[rumbling]
It’s still settling.
[clanging on pipes]
Air compressor.
Thank God.
they’re coming through.
Failed.
[man coughs]
Hey. what’s the story. Cody?
[man groans]
Yeah. What’d they say?
They say they’re still
working on it.
-Cody.
-[Cody] Yeah?
You didn’t answer
my question.
Why is it impossible
we hit a methane pocket?
Because I was told
it would never happen.
By who?
Who told you that?
Cody.
[man groan and cough]
[man]
Easy. boys! Easy! Get him out!
Easy!
[all grunting and shouting]
[man]
Cody!
-Whoa! Whoa!
-[Cody groans]
[men coughing]
[Mike]
SOS. SOS.
41.40.
Ice road north of 53.
Kenworth through the ice.
Repeat:
[dispatch. over radio]
Copy. Are there survivors?
Negative.
We are responding.
thank you.
Wait. wait. wait. wait.
What about us?
We’re heading back. right?
-Back?
-Yeah.
That’s what I said.
The ice is bound to be thinner
to the south. not thicker.
We still have two
deliverable wellheads.
Tactical redundancy.
remember?
And we’re more
than halfway there.
What do you think. Gurty?
Attaboy. Are you coming with.
Tantoo?
-Hell. yeah.
-What? This is ridiculous.
You’re all going to die.
You want to go back.
go back.
I suggest you do it quick.
[Tantoo]
Nichiiwad.
The big one.
Drop 50 degrees.
we’ll pick up 8 to 10
centimeters of new ice.
Let’s get the rigs upright
and haul ass.
We’re back in business.
You’re out of your minds.
All of you!
Wait. wait. wait.
It appears you’re the new
leader here. so--
I’m not the leader
of anything.
Everyone’s on their own.
Fine. Whatever.
You’re not curious
about back there. what happened?
We saw what happened.
No. I’m talking about
the seized-up engine.
[sniffles]
Go on.
How well do you know her?
Tantoo?
Met her first time yesterday.
Why?
Mind answering
a couple of questions?
You worked for Jim Goldenrod.
what. two years?
Two and a half.
Why’d it end?
I used his rig on the weekend
without permission.
So you’re a thief.
I’m not a thief.
Hey. I was hauling banners
for a demon--
What is this
your business?
You weren’t a happy camper.
were you?
When he fired you?
No. I... Look. just--
I’ve never seen a Kenworth with
less than 10k on the odometer
-just up and quit. have you?
-No.
[Mike] Most diesel engines
don’t seize on their own.
Unless they burn gasoline.
What’s this about?
You dosed Goldenrod’s rig with
gas while we were loading up.
I saw you next to the pump.
You said you were checking
the tire pressure.
That is a goddamn lie.
You were going to take us
all out. weren’t you?
So you could claim
the whole 200 grand.
No. I don’t know what
you’re talking about.
Who else. then?
It wasn’t me.
Wasn’t Gurty.
Wasn’t him.
He works for the company
that’s paying us.
This is not about the money
for me. you idiots!
God. my brother
is in that mine.
And the longer that we stand
here. the closer he is to dying.
-so if you could just move--
-She’s lying.
You can’t trust these people.
Call Katka.
His name is Cody Mantooth.
We have different fathers.
God. "these people"?
You’re a racist asshole...
-You’re not going anywhere.
-Look. just get out--
-Fine.
Hey. hey. hey.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
We call the company
and check your story.
Yeah. and then
go fuck yourself.
Tie her up. Gurty.
[winch cranking]
[satellite phone chirping]
Yeah. Tully. it’s Mike.
[Tully]
I just heard about Goldenrod
from County Emergency.
what happened?
We think Tantoo dosed Jim’s rig
with gasoline.
Are you kidding? That’s worse
than putting sugar in the tank.
Contact Katka.
ask them if there’s a miner.
Cody Mantooth.
on the missing list.
-I’ll explain later.
-You got it.
[man coughing]
-We want to discuss options.
-Like what?
Like decreasing
our numbers.
I want to talk
to the folks upstairs.
I want to talk to the bosses.
You don’t know tap code.
He does.
You guys can’t be serious.
It’s called triage.
Hospitals do it
all the time.
[man coughing]
If we decrease our numbers
by one-third.
our oxygen window increases by--
We can do the math.
Hospitals are
a bullshit analogy.
Patients get triaged when it’s
determined they’d die anyway.
And what about these guys?
They’re not going
to make it till morning.
[Cody]
Well. no one’s going for this.
I agree. It’s nuts.
-Say you’re wrong.
-Say we’re not.
Say we put it to a vote.
[Claude]
What’s he saying. Cody?
[Cody] They want to decrease
our numbers.
Can’t be serious.
Looks serious to me.
Claude.
Nobody wants this. Barney.
Don’t make it personal.
Hate to tell you. friend.
this is about
as personal as it gets.
Have you guys seen yourselves?
Barney. that compound fracture
has sepsis in it.
And you. Claude. how’s
that fever treating you?
You’re not going to make it
another 12 hours.
-What if we say no?
-It’s going to a vote.
That’s like two foxes
and a chicken
voting on what’s for dinner.
[Barney] I always knew
you were a prick. Mankins.
I didn’t know until now
you were also a murderer.
[clanging on pipes]
"Suggest decreasing our number."
What does that mean?
They mean decreasing
their number.
-Well. how?
-How do you think?
No.
What? No.
No. that’s crazy.
I’m not taking part in this.
We’re not calling the shots
down there. Fred.
[wind gusting]
[Mike] Hey. those trailers
smacked down hard.
Gurty and I are going
to go check the loads.
then we’ll push on.
How’s she looking?
Hey! Hey!
-Hey!
-[Gurty] Help! Hey!
-[pounding on door]
-[Mike] Open the damn door!
-[Gurty] Help! Help!
-[pounding on door]
-[Gurty screaming]
[Mike] Hey!
Open this damn door!
[pounding on door]
[truck door closes]
[sighs]
It was you.
You piece of shit.
"Insurance actuary" my ass.
What do you actually do
for Katka?
Let’s just say I work in a...
different department
of the company.
Yeah. the sewer.
[chuckles]
Look. here’s the rules.
You behave yourself.
and you can stay
in the restraints
those idiot truckers
put on you.
But you get a little spirited.
which I know is a problem
for you people.
and I will hog-tie you
and throw you in the rear.
[grunts]
-[satellite phone chirps]
-Yeah?
[Tully]
Mike. what’s your status?
No. it’s Varnay.
We’re stuck in a storm.
I’ve got an answer
on that Cody Mantooth...
I can’t talk!
[Mike]
Please work. Please work.
[sighs. breathes heavily]
She’s outfitted
with a heater unit.
Hey. Gurty. how heavy do we
think this double mill pipe is?
-Five mill double hundred.
-Huh?
Three...four...zero.
340 each?
Grab hold of the end
of this one.
We’re going
to punch that out.
Punch pipe the pin post.
My thoughts exactly.
[Mike] Easy.
Easy.
[grunting]
[both grunt]
One. two. three.
[Gurty yells]
[Gurty yelling]
[Mike]
One. two. three.
[Gurty yells]
[exhales]
[engine revs]
Yes!
Oh. no!
He took the phone.
the pistol. our gear bags.
And the Too.
And the what?
Tantoo.
Tantoo as well.
Let’s figure this out.
[grunting]
[metal creaking]
[whirring]
[engine revs]
What’s the matter with you?
Ease off!
[both grunting]
More!
Hike up the pressure!
Gurty!
I said. more!
More!
-[hydraulics hiss]
-Geez.
I said. more!
-Mike!
-Yeah. I see it.
It’s called a winch.
Mike. welding’s a winter snap!
What?
Welding’s not cold!
Just do it!
[machinery whirring]
[whirring stops]
[grunts]
Do you know why
we get fired?
It’s not your disability.
It’s your freaking attitude.
You probably didn’t take orders
before your disability.
I don’t know
what’s going on here.
but that prick.
he killed Goldenrod
and he nearly killed us.
He pinned it all on Tantoo.
who’s out here
to save her brother.
and we helped him.
We have one chance. one chance
to get out of this
and make this right.
And you’re not going
to wreck it.
Not this time.
-[machinery whirring]
-Don’t you dare touch that.
Come on. come on.
come on.
She’s coming free.
What the hell was that?
Gurty? Gurty?
Gurty!
Gurty! Gurty!
[gasps]
[wind gusting]
[gasping]
[grunting]
[grunts]
Gurty. stay with me.
Stay with me...
[sobbing]
[grunts]
Come on. Gurty.
Come on. Breathe.
Breathe.
Come on. Gurty.
Work with me here.
[sobs softly]
-[gasps]
-Oh. geez.
[coughs]
Gurty.
[laughs]
Jesus. Here. pal. Here. pal.
Here. pal. I got you.
I got you.
-I got you.
-[whimpering]
I got you.
[coughing]
Gurty. I’m sorry.
I’m sorry. I’m sorry.
I’m sorry I hit you.
I’m sorry.
I didn’t mean to.
I’m sorry. Gurty.
[panting]
Mike...
[coughs]
Yeah. Sunken dreams. Gurty.
Sunken dreams.
Yeah. It’s eating at me too.
Why would an employee
of the company that hired us
sabotage...?
They want us to fail. That’s it.
They want us to fail.
I didn’t see it.
I’ve been too wrapped up
in what’s in this for us.
[sighs]
Oh. now I’m angry.
Let’s get out of here.
It’s not about money now.
This is personal.
Should be 20 minutes
to the shoreline.
[wind gusting]
Rig two’s in the lake
20 klicks due south.
Took the mechanic
and the driver with it.
I told them not to store
dynamite in the trailer
due to friction detonation.
but they had other ideas.
Good.
Good. That’s good.
How about the driver?
Well. she’s alive. sir.
[Sickle] Put the cab through
that guardrail up there.
Your story is
she lost control.
you dove for safety
before it went over.
-You clear?
-Clear. sir.
The miners’ oxygen window
closes in three hours.
so the press is going to be
all over us.
They need to be told our
valiant rescue had a tragic end.
I’ll make it happen. sir.
Good. Good.
You call me
when it’s done.
[snowmobile engines rev]
[men coughing]
If you do this.
it’s on your head.
You want to blame someone.
blame management.
What has management
got to do with it?
All those in favor.
raise your--
[Lampard] Mankins!
I asked you a question.
Because they made us
cut the damn sensors. René.
They what?
They claimed the new quotas
were killing them.
so they couldn’t afford
a shutdown.
They said there was no chance
of gas pockets this far north.
And they sweetened the deal.
[Lampard] How much?
Hundred dollars per man
per month.
You turned off the gas sensors
for $100 a month?
And anyone who blew the whistle
gets shit-canned.
None of that
matters now. René.
Our oxygen is falling fast.
There’s a vote on the floor.
All those in favor.
raise your hands.
No.
[grunts]
Hey!
How much methane do you think
is in here now?
Huh?
These men are not
the enemy.
The enemy’s up there.
Bullshit!
The enemy’s asphyxiation.
We’re getting out of here
together.
or not at all.
You’re one stupid
son of a bitch. René.
You too. Cody.
Maybe so. but this is how
it’s going to be.
Right here.
Let’s clear the road.
-Ow!
-[lighter snaps closed]
Yeah. that’s what I thought.
You’re never gonna
get away with this.
There’s gonna be
an investigation.
That’s the plan.
[squeaking and scratching]
What is that?
-[rat squealing]
-Ah!
[grunting]
Thanks.
[squeaks]
Mayday! Mayday!
Mayday! Come in!
Anybody. come in!
Mayday! Mayday!
Mayday! Is anybody out there?
[Mike]
Tantoo. it’s Mike.
We’re coming up the Pass.
-Where are you?
-Approaching the upper traverse.
I got Varnay behind me
with others. They’re all armed.
We’ve got two hours to get to
Katka. I’m still pulling weight.
-They’re trying to stop us.
-Yeah. we figured.
Cody always said that they cut
corners with the methane regs.
Those bastards.
they caused the cave-in.
now they’re trying
to cover it up.
Not going to happen.
Just hang on. We’re coming.
[zipper rasps]
Take them out so it will
pass forensics.
No bullet holes.
Do not discharge
your weapons.
-[tapping gauge]
-What?
Shit.
Oh. come on.
One more mile.
We can do one more mile.
Come on.
Yeah. we can do it.
Pull over!
Pull over now!
[shouting angrily]
If they were going to shoot us.
they would’ve done it by now.
Yeah. Good. Come on.
Ready. bro?
Pull over now!
[grunts]
[panting]
[both grunting]
[gasping and wheezing]
[sighs]
[breathing heavily]
Well. don’t just stand there.
Let’s go.
Come on. come on.
don’t stop. don’t stop.
Don’t you dare stop.
Come on.
Don’t do this to me.
Don’t... Don’t do this.
Come on. keep going.
Don’t stop. don’t stop!
Come on. you piece of shit.
Let’s go.
I’m sorry. I didn’t mean it.
I didn’t mean it!
Don’t think that I’m not going
to use this on you!
What’s your game?
Oh. what. are you just
going to stand there?
Yeah.
This is the last wellhead.
What are you going to do?
You going to push it
the rest of the way?
Because if you’re going
to make it to Katka
before your brother
stops breathing.
that’s what you’re going
to have to do.
The other drivers
are going to come.
The other drivers are dead.
[gasping softly]
[breathing heavily]
[truck approaching]
[loud crash]
He ripped out
my fuel equalizer.
Gurty can fix that.
We’ll change out
your fuel line
and siphon enough juice
to get you down to Katka.
Listen...
we...
we seriously misjudged you.
Friends?
Yeah.
[engine revving]
Hey. how long do you think
all this is going to take?
A couple of minutes.
I know you’re anxious
-about your brother.
-Yeah.
Cody’s all I got. you know?
It’s kind of like
you and yours.
Yeah.
[grunts]
Gurty’s like that commercial.
Takes a lickin’
but keeps on tickin’.
That last can should do it.
He saved my life.
Give him a treat.
[Skeeter squeaks]
[distant explosions]
[snow and ice sifting]
We can’t stay here
and we can’t back up.
We’ll have to outrun it.
-You’re dreaming.
-You got a better idea?
[brakes hiss]
[exhales]
[Gurty]
Oh!
-Oh.
-[Mike] Uncouple the trailer.
We got a wellhead
to deliver.
[gasps softly]
Oh. geez.
[Tantoo]
It’s not as bad as it looks.
It’s. uh...
It looks pretty bad. kid.
-Just be fast about it.
-Uh...
Like pulling out
a wisdom tooth.
A wisdom tooth? Do I--
Do I look like a dentist?
-[branch snaps]
-Aah!
Good girl. Good girl.
-Breathe. Breathe.
-[breathing heavily]
That’s it. Good girl.
Good girl.
Gurty. come and help me!
-[whimpering]
-Good girl.
Good girl.
Come on.
[gasps]
Hang tight.
Gurty and I are going to haul
your trailer off the cliff.
hook up and head
to that mine.
We still got 45 minutes.
Yeah.
Sir? Mine Safety down in
Winnipeg wants René’s laptops.
Fred. Mine Safety
gets the laptops
when I say they get the laptops.
all right?
We got a goddamn CEO
to worry about.
Yeah. well. you can
tell him yourself.
He’ll be here in an hour.
[scoffs] There is nothing
in those e-mails
that implicates us.
Everything was cash.
so there’s no paper trail.
To the authorities.
this just looks like
another tragic mining accident.
Right in the morning.
we open Tunnel 6.
We remove the bodies.
We let the public hold
their ritual funerals.
We weather the obligatory
"occupational hazard" debate.
And we open back up.
Business as usual.
[dialing]
[phone line ringing]
Come on. Varnay.
answer the goddamn phone.
[men coughing]
[faint wheezing]
[man coughs]
Look. Gurty. we did it.
We did it!
Mike. Mike.
[tires squeal]
[grunts]
Give me that pistol!
Gurty. you got to take
the wheel.
Come on. You can do it.
Do not stop until you reach
the mine. got it?
Do not stop.
Hey. Kill him.
Not for me.
for my brother.
[Mike grunts]
[heavy breathing]
[grunts]
I’ve done this
a thousand times.
Move. I can do it.
[both panting]
[bridge creaking]
[grunts]
Shit.
Traction pads. Yes. go.
[grunts]
[bridge creaking]
Go! Come on. come on.
Shit. Shit.
[cables snap]
Gurty. the cables are snapping!
Let’s go! Come on!
[panting]
[both grunt]
[bridge creaking]
[engine revving]
[rumbling]
[panting]
[creaking loudly]
Come on.
Oh. shit. Oh. shit.
[loud rumbling]
[grunting]
[Tantoo]
Gurty. shut the gate!
[grunting]
[engine revving]
-Gurty!
-[grunting]
[crunching]
Gurty? [gasps]
[breathing heavily]
Gurty. Gurty!
[Gurty wheezing]
He saved the rig.
Oh. Jesus.
Mike...
you...
brother mine.
My brother.
Brother. Mine.
[sniffles]
No. no. no. no...
[cries]
No.
I’m sorry.
I’m sorry. I’m sorry.
I’m so sorry.
Deputy Minister. Jack Tager.
vice president of operations.
George Sickle.
general manager.
-Tager.
-Sir.
-Sickle.
-How are you. sir?
It’s cold up here.
We have hot drink
and food inside. sir.
How was the drive
down from Gillam Airfield?
Cut the formalities. Sickle.
Tell me the situation.
Our last contact
with the rescue team was 0300.
Deputy Minister.
how about you?
Your man in Winnipeg.
Heard anything?
Negative.
[Thomason]
It’s been 30 hours
and the wellheads
haven’t arrived.
I don’t believe
the men are going
to get out
of Tunnel 6 alive.
[siren wails]
What’s that?
That’s our emergency Klaxon.
Oh. my God.
Hey. welcome to Katka.
You McCann?
Yeah.
You need medical?
Everyone. on the double.
We still have a chance.
We got another one.
Get me the gurney. ASAP.
There’s no hurry.
[Fred]
We need to get that wellhead
unloaded and bolted down.
Let’s go!
Straight to the drill site.
Go. go. go. go!
Wellhead team. let’s go!
You’re up!
Got it!
Wellhead is tapped
and sprung.
All right. blasting team.
Tunnel 6 on the double!
[loud explosions]
[weak wheezing]
[dirt sifting]
[distant explosions]
Young lady.
you’re in no condition--
I don’t give a shit.
Put a Band-Aid on it.
I heard blasting.
I’m going to find Cody.
-Tantoo.
-What?
We’re outside
the oxygen window.
We didn’t make it
in time.
Don’t say that.
Look. Gurty died so that
the miners would live. okay?
My brother is alive.
I’m going to find him. Let’s go.
[man]
Someone’s coming out!
[all cheer and applaud]
[Tantoo] Cody?
Cody?
Oh. my God!
Cody. You’re alive.
-Oh. my God.
-[Cody] You saved my life.
I had help.
Thank you.
[indistinct chatter]
[laughs]
[inaudible]
You paid them?
You paid them to shut off
their sensors?
You’re disgusting.
[crowd gasps and murmurs]
Mr. McCann?
I’m Deputy Minister
of Natural Resources for Canada.
I want to thank you.
and offer condolences
for your brother.
The company has some papers
for you to sign.
We have a check for you.
and the police
need your statement.
Excuse me. Mr. McCann?
We found this
with your brother’s things.
Thank you.
[power tools whirring]
[truck horn blaring]
[chuckles]
-Hey!
-Hey.
Brand-new Kenworth. huh?
Yup.
It’s a good color.
In honor of Jim.
What you hauling?
Sporting goods.
Oh. Ain’t that the life.
Yup. No bosses.
no punching time clocks.
-Good pay rates.
-Yeah.
Well. you find yourself
pining for the ice road.
you know where to find me.
Deal.
Thank you. Mike.
[truck engine starts]
[squeaking]
♪ We ain’t got much ♪
♪ Where I come from ♪
♪ We all work hard ♪
♪ Don’t bet on good luck ♪
♪ Ain’t no easy street ♪
♪ Just some gravel
And a blacktop ♪
♪ And we hold on to ♪
♪ Oh. everything we got ♪
♪ We got grit. we got guts ♪
♪ We got pride
We got tough ♪
♪ Ain’t no giving up
Running through our veins ♪
♪ Backs to the wall
We’ll find a way ♪
♪ Never say quit
Never say die ♪
♪ Play a little rough
You’re doggone right ♪
♪ Oh. knock us down
We’ll come back every time ♪
♪ Yeah. we got fight ♪
♪ We don’t bark much ♪
♪ We just hang tight ♪
♪ Sometimes the underdog ♪
♪ Got the baddest bite ♪
♪ It’s how we were born ♪
♪ How we were raised ♪
♪ From our boots
To our last names ♪
♪ We got grit. we got guts ♪
♪ We got pride
We got tough ♪
♪ Ain’t no giving up
Running through our veins ♪
♪ Backs to the wall
We’ll find a way ♪
♪ Never say quit
Never say die ♪
♪ Play a little rough
Yeah. you’re doggone right ♪
♪ Knock us down
We’ll come back every time ♪
♪ Oh. knock us down ♪
♪ We’ll come back
Every time ♪
♪ Oh. knock us down ♪
♪ We’ll come back
Every time ♪
♪ Oh. we got fight ♪
♪ Hell. we got fight ♪
♪ Oh. oh ♪
♪ We got fight ♪
[woman]
♪ I’m gonna rise ♪
♪ From the dust
And the ashes ♪
♪ I reach for the sky ♪
[man]
♪ It’s all coming down ♪
[woman]
[man]
♪ This life I’ve been living ♪
♪ I’ll leave on the ground ♪
[woman]
♪ It’s all coming down ♪
[both]
♪ As sure as this world ♪
[woman]
♪ Won’t stop turning around ♪
♪ Morning will bring ♪
♪ A brand-new beginning ♪
♪ A new song to sing ♪
♪ And the trumpet will sound ♪
[man]
♪ All around ♪
[both]
♪ And I’ll see that sweet ♪
♪ John’s soul coming down ♪
[woman]
♪ It’s all coming down ♪
[both]
♪ As sure as this world ♪
[woman]
♪ Won’t stop turning around ♪